# w3dt Sudo Meeting Notes 2021-04-27

_Notes to be saved to <https://github.com/protocol/w3dt-sudo/tree/master/meeting-notes>_

## Attendees

 * @vasco-santos
 * @achingbrain
 * @jacobheun
 * @andrew
 * @rvagg
 * @olizilla
 * <ADD YOUR NAME HERE>

## Sync

What we've been up to:

 * @rvagg:
    * Closed out IPLD and js-multiformats types & ESM toolchain releases:
        - https://github.com/multiformats/js-multiformats/pull/75 `multiformats` 7.0.0
        - https://github.com/ipld/js-dag-pb/pull/6 `@ipld/dag-pb` 1.0.0
        - https://github.com/ipld/js-dag-cbor/pull/18 `@ipld/dag-cbor` 5.0.0
        - https://github.com/ipld/js-dag-json/pull/29 `@ipld/dag-json` 5.0.0
        - https://github.com/ipld/js-car/pull/8 `@ipld/car` 1.0.0
    * js-ceramic types https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/pull/1194 - 3 issues filed in in js-ipfs with typing questions/problems
    * Gateway++ investigation and planning for Sudo https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/100 - this has been "approved"
    * "IPFS Collections" planning and investigation with PM (a product review meeting later this week if anyone wants to join or watch)
    * Cross-chain bridges & oracles investigation with PM (future Nitro work)
 * @vasco-santos:
    * Finished Libp2p release process tasks and follow ups 
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-examples/pull/37
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-daemon/pull/46
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/912
    * Lotâ€™s of Debug/Bug fixing to unblock releases
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/919
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/917
      * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipns/pull/118
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-peer-id/pull/147
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-record/pull/27
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-crypto/pull/188
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-interfaces/pull/93
      * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipns/pull/119
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-interfaces/pull/94
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-record/pull/28
      * https://github.com/ipfs/js-datastore-pubsub/pull/74
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/924
      * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/pull/3633
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webrtc-star/pull/335
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webrtc-star/pull/336
      * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/pull/3634
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/927
      * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/926
    * Shipped webrtc  with [multiple listeners support](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webrtc-star/releases/tag/v0.22.1)
 * @achingbrain:
     * Build fixes
         * https://github.com/hugomrdias/playwright-test/pull/192
         * https://github.com/prodatakey/dirty-chai/pull/44
         * https://github.com/ipfs/aegir/pull/788
         * https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/issues/4704
     * Buffer upgrade
         * https://github.com/mafintosh/tar-stream/pull/134
         * https://github.com/dignifiedquire/borc/pull/53
         * https://github.com/NodeFactoryIo/js-libp2p-noise/pull/94
     * Types
         * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs-repo/pull/308
         * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/922
         * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/pull/918
         * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/pull/3607
     * pbjs upgrade
         * https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-kad-dht/pull/218
         * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs-unixfs/pull/145
         * https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs-bitswap/pull/323
 * @andrew:
     - ~~forest~~ forage
         - Renamed Forest to [Forage](https://github.com/foragepm/forage)
         - extracted [zipdigest](https://github.com/foragepm/zipdigest) into seperate module
         - First usage of forage as a library: [forage-pl](https://github.com/foragepm/forage-pl) - import all PL packages and dependencies
         - fixed building electron releases on tags (thanks @olizilla)
         - periodically check for updates in background whilst running proxy server
         - want/have messaging over pubsub for package cids
         - call with Kadir about how forage fits with the IPFS+Filecoin golden path
         - various bug fixes
    - ecosystem dashboard
        - Added [endpoints](https://filecoin.ecosystem-dashboard.com/forage) for forage-pl 
        - database upgrade on filecoin instance
 * @jacobeun:
     - Primarily focused on gathering feedback and planning for process improvements, including maintenance and new project flows
 * @olizilla:
     - dweb.link 
         - iframe test for ipfs protocol handler working with a postmessage echo page.
         - Firefox roadblocks
             - no longer supports ipfs as a scheme for register protocol handler
             - opens iframe with ipfs:// src in a new tab!
     - fixed privacy / analytics issue in ipfs-webui https://protocollabs.slack.com/archives/C01MGR621GE/p1619425189332400
     - making notes on IPFS Gateway / api proposals
     

## Discussion topics

### ðŸ”¥ Lotus / Filecoin RPC and Library Audit

 * [Tracking](https://github.com/protocol/w3dt-sudo/issues/12)

### ðŸ”¥ TypeScript Definitions for core libraries

 * [Core types tracking](https://github.com/protocol/w3dt-sudo/issues/17)

Steps to closing out:

1. Release an ipfs RC with the libp2p RC
2. Release libp2p
3. Release all libp2p modules that depend on the libp2p release
4. Update ipfs RC with libp2p & related module releases
5. Ensure our types are sane (e.g. https://github.com/ceramicnetwork/js-ceramic/pull/1194 and other collabs as pe https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/.travis.yml#L76)
6. Release ipfs! + documentation + promotion

## This week's activities

 * @vasco-santos:
     - get libp2p and IPFS released
 * @achingbrain:
     - check types against collabs
     - support @vasco-santos for libp2p release
     - do ipfs release
 * @andrew:
     - more work on want/have pubsub system + docs
     - add support for logging to a file
     - electron auto-updating
 * @rvagg:
     * Collections "product review" later this week - pulling together the _collection_ of ideas about what we're solving for and potential solutions for a broader technical and product discussion
     * Gateway++ - we need to materialise scoped work for this for Sudo! (Need help on this - @oli, and anyone else!)
     * js-ipfs Types help where I can
     * js-ceramic - probably work on their js-dag-jose codec; update it for latest multiformats
     * Look at js-ipfs collab repos: https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/.travis.yml#L76
     * Make progress on wrapping up the FilJSAPIAudit report along with action items arising from that
 * @olizilla:
     * write Gateway proposal
         - part 1: synthesize the existing proposals
         - part 3: profit!
 * @jacobheun:

## Other items


