# w3dt Sudo Meeting Notes 2020-02-23

_Notes to be saved to <https://github.com/protocol/w3dt-sudo/tree/master/meeting-notes>_

## Attendees

 * @vasco-santos
 * @dirkmc
 * @achingbrain
 * @rvagg

## Sync

What we've been up to:

 * @rvagg: research, project proposal pitching, scoping, meetings, etc.
   - lots of tangential research into ecosystem things, NFT rabbit holes and other
   - finding lots of internal PL resources from PM and other folks that are in our mission area
   - have a new AWS instance, installed and synced lotus (will share login details)
       - https://docs.filecoin.io/get-started/lotus/installation/
       - work done as the `lotus` user on the system (`sudo su lotus` then `cd`)
       - lotus running via systemd, `sudo systemctl stop lotus-daemon`, `sudo systemctl start lotus-daemon`, `journalctl -u lotus -f` (lotus doesn't output much to stdout/stderr when run detached though)
       - log output to ~lotus/var/lotus-daemon.log
   - finding miners
       - https://docs.filecoin.io/store/lotus/store-data/#find-a-miner
       - using a list of miners that participated in the MinerX program to `lotus client query-ask <miner id>`, output is in ~lotus/minerx-fellows.query-ask.txt
       - 'Min Piece size' is interesting here, (`grep Min minerx-fellows.txt.query-ask`), some say they'll accept quite small pieces
   - doing deals
       - not yet, have asked to get some FIL for dev internally, the daemon on the machine has a wallet ready to go
 * @vasco-santos
   - experiment with Slate
     - main pain point: setting up the environment for running the app, this will immediatly turn users out
       - postgres database
       - textile hub account
       - run 3 other servers: pubsub, search and file upload
     - Rod's proposal [Create fork-and-go Slate-like](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/24) should focus on solving the main pain points
   - document current state of js-libp2p for the stewardship team
     - known problems
     - on-going work
     - key planned initiatives
     - relevant backlog
   - js-libp2p bug fixes + maintenance
   - Libp2p observer - documented hack week work and draft PRs
 * @achingbrain
   - still deep in js-ipfs - types work not complete
 * @dirkmc
   - deal success work continues - contributing context to the team taking this on, will do for the short term too but will participate lightly in our team work in parallel

## Discussion topics

### Store-my-text example app planning

Basic proposal: https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/46

@rvagg's proposal for Sudo:

#### Purpose

Initially:

 * **Learning** about Filecoin from a client and app developer perspective.
 * **Learning** about running and managing Lotus and interacting with via the API & JS client libraries.
 * **Learning** about the practicalities of building directly on top of Lotus, or whether we need to reach into the ecosystem.
 * Breaking from our current perspectives and getting into the web3 app developer frame.
 
Future:

 * Develop an example application that builds on Filecoin and demonstrates the basic use of storage & deal-making and relevant complexities.
 * Highlights challenges that web3 app developers need to solve (miner choice, managing funds, redundancy, maintaining long-term storage, etc.), suggests possible solutions but does not necessarily solve those problems.
 * Potentially create a useful, but minimal, application that can store small assets for users on Filecoin and provide CID & retrieval instructions. Could link to IPFS, expand content storage types, accept payments/FIL and/or link to wallets.

#### Scope & short-term plan

 * Limit scope to initially, expand as we learn and reprioritise.
 * Running and maintaining Lotus
 * Limiting ourselves to the classic web scope (web2++ or web2->web3) for now, not putting too much smart into the browser (?), not desktop-ish, not fully "dapp", etc. yet (??)
 * Building a simple Node.js web application that can interact with a local Lotus node, a start
 * Experiment with https://github.com/filecoin-shipyard/js-lotus-client, contribute updates if needed (see https://github.com/alanshaw/js-lotus-client-examples for simple e.g.)
 * Aim for **idiomatic** webapp development—decide on a technology stack that is similar to what is being used in the wild: frameworks (web, testing, etc.), storage/state-manegement, structure & style. Devs diving into this codebase should not find it too _strange_.

#### Tasks

 * Lotus node - setup and run - document & share learnings with eachother
 * Web app scaffold, incl initial framework, tooling and layout choices
    